<h1 align="center"><a href="https://leetcode.com/problems/first-bad-version/" target="_blank">278. First Bad Version</a></h1>

## Problem statement:
You are a product manager and currently leading a team to develop a new product. Unfortunately, the latest version of your product fails the quality check. Since each version is developed based on the previous version, all the versions after a bad version are also bad.

Suppose you have `n` versions `[1, 2, ..., n]` and you want to find out the first bad one, which causes all the following ones to be bad.

You are given an API bool `isBadVersion(version)` which returns whether `version` is bad. Implement a function to find the first bad version. You should minimize the number of calls to the API.




## Example 1:

```
Input: n = 5, bad = 4

Output: 4

Explanation:
call isBadVersion(3) -> false
call isBadVersion(5) -> true
call isBadVersion(4) -> true
Then 4 is the first bad version.
```

## Example 2:

```
Input: n = 1, bad = 1

Output: 1
```



## Constraints:

```
1 <= bad <= n <= 231 - 1
```


 

## Approach:

1. **Initialize the Search Range:**
   
   Initialize the search range from 1 (minimum version) to `n` (maximum version), where `n` is the total number of versions.

2. **Binary Search for First Bad Version:**

    - Perform binary search to find the first bad version:
    - Calculate the middle value `mid` between the start and end of the search range.
    - Use the `isBadVersion` API to check if the version at index `mid` is bad.
    - If `mid` is a bad version, update the answer to `mid` and move the search range to the left half by updating `end` to `mid - 1`.
    - If `mid` is not a bad version, move the search range to the right half by updating `start` to `mid + 1`.

3. **Return the Answer:**

    After the binary search loop completes, return the value of the answer, which represents the index of the first bad version.

By using binary search, we are efficiently narrowing down the search range for the first bad version until we find it.

## Example:

Let's consider an example:

Input: `n = 10`

Suppose the bad versions start from index 4.

- Initialize `start` = 1 and `end` = 10.
- Calculate `mid` = (1 + 10) / 2 = 5.
- Check if version at index `mid` (version 5) is bad. Since it is bad, update the answer to `mid` = 5 and update `end` to `mid - 1` = 4.
- Calculate `mid` = (1 + 4) / 2 = 2.
- Check if version at index `mid` (version 2) is bad. Since it is not bad, update `start` to `mid + 1` = 3.
- Calculate `mid` = (3 + 4) / 2 = 3.
- Check if version at index `mid` (version 3) is bad. Since it is not bad, update `start` to `mid + 1` = 4.
- Calculate `mid` = (4 + 4) / 2 = 4.
- Check if version at index `mid` (version 4) is bad. Since it is bad, update the answer to `mid` = 4 and update `end` to `mid - 1` = 3.
- Calculate `mid` = (4 + 3) / 2 = 3.
- Check if version at index `mid` (version 3) is bad. Since it is not bad, update `start` to `mid + 1` = 4.
- Calculate `mid` = (4 + 3) / 2 = 3.
- Check if version at index `mid` (version 3) is bad. Since it is not bad, update `start` to `mid + 1` = 4.
- Calculate `mid` = (4 + 3) / 2 = 3.
- Check if version at index `mid` (version 3) is bad. Since it is not bad, update `start` to `mid + 1` = 4.
- Calculate `mid` = (4 + 3) / 2 = 3.
- Check if version at index `mid` (version 3) is bad. Since it is not bad, update `start` to `mid + 1` = 4.

The binary search loop completes, and the answer is 4, which is the index of the first bad version.




## Code: 

```java
public int firstBadVersion(int n) {
        // Initialize the search range from 1 to n
        int start = 1;
        int end = n;

        int ans = -1; // Initialize the answer

        // Perform binary search until start index is less than or equal to end index
        while (start <= end) {
            int mid = start + (end - start) / 2;

            // Check if the version mid is a bad version using the provided API
            boolean badVersionApi = isBadVersion(mid);

            if (badVersionApi == true) {
                ans = mid; // Update the answer with the current mid
                end = mid - 1; // Move to the left half to find the first bad version
            } else {
                start = mid + 1; // Move to the right half
            }
        }

        return ans; // Return the index of the first bad version
    }
```







## Complexity:

```
Time complexity: O(logN)
Space complexity: O(1)
```

## Things I Learned:

- Optimal way to call api , That configuring out this is a binary search question
  


## Companies:

```
Google -> 19
Amazon -> 12
Facebook -> 7
Microsoft-> 6
Apple -> 5
Adobe -> 4
Cisco -> 2
```





